# 1) What Licensing Agreement did you choose and why?
I chose the GNU General Public License v3.0 because I need this GitHub to be accessable to many people within the public domain. Since it is a wastewater treatment system that is up and running, the public has the right to access the data. The data should also be able to be edited by other grad students, professors, and other personell involved with the project. However, the track changes needs to be turned on so people can see what has be altered from previous sessions.
# 2) What are data archiving options are recommended by the Montana State University Library?
The general repositories that MSU suggests uploading data to includes: Dryad, Zenodo, and Icpsr. However, there are also other disciplinary repositories that they suggest. These include PLOS, Scientific Data, and NIH.
# 3) How would using GitHub help make your data/code align with FAIR Protocols?
By using GitHub, the data collected from the Bridger Bowl Wetland project would be easily accessible to anyone interested in the project. It would also allow people to download data in an easy to use format so that they can do future analysis regarding new topics. Since it would be on the GitHub website, the data would be easily findable and accessible. Since all the data would be converted into a CSV format, the data would be easily interpretable and resusable. All the data would also include previous reports that would be easily available for download. This way, all the data from previous years can have context, is in one location that is easy to use, and are not lost on a remote server.
# 4) What are the advantages of making your data/code more widely accessible?
When the data is more accessible, it make knowledge transfer much more efficient. New people that are introduced to the project (i.e. new grad students) can have all of the data in one spot, rather than scattered over various platforms. Also, when technology changes in the future, the data will still be able to be interpreted and will not be lost. This will also make it easier for government agencies to check whether or not the wetland is meeting all of the pollutant removal requirements. For example, the DEQ would be able to easily see the all the data and would be able to look through past years data in order to understand the progression of the system.
# 5) What are the disadvantages of making your data/code more widely accessible?
When the code is made more accessible, there comes the risk of the data being misintrepretted or altered. Many people not in the industry may read the data, compare it to other treatment methods, and claim that it as an unreliable form of treatment. However, although wastewater treatment wetlands may not produce the lowest effluent pollutant concentrations compared to other forms of treatment, they still will meet all of the requirements set forth by the Department of Enviornmental Quality (DEQ). Wastewater treatment wetlands also have many other benefits that make them a viable form of treatment in a variety of different applications.
# 6) What data/code from your grad project would you envision publishing on GitHub?
Data that would be published from my grad project includes pollutant concentrations over time, effect of different pump schedules on treatment efficient, retention time of water within the wetland, and comparison of startup concentrations vs. steady state concentrations. All of this data would be very beneficial to professionals in the field and will help wastewater treatment wetlands become more intergrated within our society.
# 7) What data/code would you not publish? Why?
Data that I would not publish would be any data that corressponds to samples that were past their experation date. Samples can only be held for so long in the fridge before they become unrepresentative of the system. Any data collected from these samples would only be used if one was trying to compare expired samples vs. new samples while holding all other variables constant. However, I will not be focusing on this data so I would not publish it on GitHub.
